here my children the instruction of a
father and give attention to no
understanding for I give you good
doctrine do not forsake my law when I
was my father's son
tender and the only one in the sight of
my mother he also taught me and said to
me let your heart retain my words keep
my commands and live get wisdom get
understanding
do not forget nor turn away from the
words of my mouth do not forsake her and
she will preserve you love her and she
will keep you wisdom is the principal
thing therefore get wisdom and in all
your getting get understanding exalt her
and she will promote you she will bring
you honor when you embrace her she will
place on your head an ornament of grace
a crown of glory she will deliver to you
here my son and receive my sayings and
the years of your life will be many
I have taught you in the way of wisdom I
have led you in the right paths when you
walk your steps will not be hindered
when you run you will not stumble take
firm hold of instruction do not let go
keep her or she is your life do not
enter the path of the wicked and do not
walk in the way of evil avoid it do not
travel on it turn away from it and pass
on for they do not sleep unless they
have done evil and their sleep is taken
away unless they make someone fall for
they eat the bread of wickedness and
drink the wine of violence but the path
of the just is like The Shining Sun that
shines ever brighter unto the perfect
day
the way of the wicked is like darkness
they do not know what makes them stumble
my son give attention to my words
incline your ear to my sayings do not
let them depart from your eyes keep them
in the midst of your heart for they are
life to those who find them and health
to all their flesh keep your heart with
all diligence for out of it spring the
issues of life put away from you at a
seat full mouth and put perverse lips
far from you that your eyes look
straight ahead and your eyelids look
right before you ponder the path of your
feet and that all your ways be
established do not turn to the right or
the left remove your foot from evil
you